[Music]
today I'm going to unpack for you three
examples of iconic design and it makes
perfect sense that I should be the one
to do it because I have a bachelor's
degree in literature but I am also a
famous minor television personality and
an avid collector of design within reach
catalogs so I pretty much know
everything there is now I'm sure you
recognize this object many of you
probably saw it as you are landing your
private Zeppelin's at Los Angeles
International Airport over the past
couple of days this is known as the
theme building that is its name for
reasons that are still very murky and it
is perhaps the best example we have in
Los Angeles of ancient extraterrestrial
architecture it was first excavated in
1961 as they were building LAX although
scientists believe that it dates back to
the year 2000 before Common Era when it
was used as a busy transdimensional
spaceport by the ancient astronauts who
first colonized this planet and raised
our species from savagery by giving us
the gift of written language and
technology and the gift of revolving
restaurants it is thought to have been a
replacement for the older space ports
located of course at Stonehenge and
considered to be quite an improvement
due to the uncluttered design the lack
of druids hanging around all the time
and obviously the much better access to
parking when it was uncovered it ushered
in a new era of streamlined archaically
futuristic design called googy which
came to be synonymous with the jet age a
misnomer
after all the ancient astronauts who
used it did not travel by jet very often
preferring instead to travel by
feathered serpent powered by crystal
skulls
ah yes a table we use these every day
and on top of it the juicy Salif this is
a design by Philippe Starck who I
believe is in the audience at this very
moment and you can tell it is a stark
design by its precision its playfulness
it's an innovation and its promise of
imminent violence it is a design that
challenges your intuition does not what
you think it is when you first see it it
is not a fork designed to grab three
hors d'oeuvres at a time which would be
useful out in the lobby I would say and
despite its obvious influence by the
ancient astronauts in its space a genus
and try pod ISM it is not something
designed to attach to your brain and
suck out your thoughts it is in fact a
citrus juicer and when I say that you
never see it as anything else again it
is also not a monument to design it is a
monument to designs utility you can take
it home with you
unlike the theme building which will
stay where it is forever this is
affordable and can come home with you
and as such it can sit on your kitchen
counter it can't go in your drawers
trust me I found that at the hard way
and we make your kitchen counter into a
monument to design one other thing about
it if you do have one at home let me
tell you one of the features you may not
know when you fall asleep it comes alive
and it walks around your house and goes
through your mail and watches you as you
sleep
okay what is this object I have no idea
I don't know what that thing is it looks
terrible is it a little hot plate I
don't get it
does anyone know Chi it's an iPhone
iPhone oh yes that's right I remember
those I had my whole bathroom tiles
redone with those back in the good old
days no I have an iPhone of course I do
here is my well-loved iPhone I do so
many things on this little device I like
to read books on it more than that I
like to buy books on it that I never
have to feel guilty about not reading
because they go in here and I never look
at them again and it's perfect I use it
every day to measure the weight of an ox
for example every now and then I admit
that I complete a phone call on it
occasionally and yet I forget about it
all the time this is design that once
you saw it you forgot about it it is
easy to forget the gasp inducement that
occurred in 2007 when you first touched
this thing because it became so quickly
pervasive and because of how instantly
we adopted these gestures and made it an
extension of our life
unlike the theme building this is not
alien technology or I should say what it
did was it took technology which unlike
people in this room too many other
people in the world still feels very
alien and made it immediately and
instantly feel familiar and intimate and
unlike the juicy Salif it does not
threaten to attach itself to your brain
rather it simply attaches itself to your
brain
and you didn't even notice it happen it
so there you go my name is John Hodgman
I just explained design thank you very
much
[Applause]